[DOCS-8692] Add Best Practices for Creating Custom Rules (#25879)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/sensitive_data_scanner/guide/best_practices_for_creating_custom_rules.md

---
title: Best Practices for Creating Custom Rules
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/sensitive_data_scanner/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Set up Sensitive Data Scanner"
- link: "/sensitive_data_scanner/regular_expression_syntax"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Regular expression syntax for custom rules"
---

## Overview

> Sensitive Data Scanner uses scanning rules to identify, tag, and optionally redact sensitive data in your logs, APM events, and RUM events. Use out-of-box scanning rules or create your own custom rules using [regular expression][1] (regex) patterns. This guide goes over best practices for creating custom rules with regex.

Reviewer: Nit: change "out-of-box" to "out-of-the-box" and hyperlink to the library rules doc

Author: Good catch! Updated and linked.

> Sensitive Data Scanner uses scanning rules to identify, tag, and optionally redact sensitive data in your logs, APM events, and RUM events. Use out-of-box scanning rules or create your own custom rules using [regular expression][1] (regex) patterns. This guide goes over best practices for creating custom rules with regex.

Author: ```suggestion
Sensitive Data Scanner uses scanning rules to identify, tag, and optionally redact sensitive data in your logs, APM events, and RUM events. Use [out-of-the-box scanning rules][3] or create your own custom rules using [regular expression][1] (regex) patterns. This guide goes over best practices for creating custom rules with regex.
```

## Use precise regex patterns

> Use regex patterns that are as precise as possible because generic patterns result in more false positives. To refine your regex pattern, test the regex in the **Sample data** box when you are creating a custom rule. See step 2 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2] for more information.

Reviewer: Instead of "use" maybe change it to create/define/write? That way the language is less about using something existing and more about a user making their own custom rule.

Suggestion: "To refine your regex pattern, add test data in the Sample data tester when you are creating a custom rule"

{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/regex_sample_test.mp4" alt="Testing a regex pattern with a sample that matches and one that does not" video=true >}}

## Refine regex pattern matching

Add keywords to the keyword dictionary to refine detection accuracy for matching regex patterns. For example, if you are scanning for passwords, you can add keywords like `password`, `token`, `secret`, and `credential`. You can also require that these keywords be within a specified number of characters of a match. By default, keywords must be within 30 characters before a matched value. See step 2 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2] for more information.

{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/password_keyword.png" alt="A keyword dictionary with password, token, secret, credential" style="width:100%;" >}}

To make matches more precise, you can also do one of the following:

- Scan the entire event but exclude certain attributes from getting scanned. For example, if you are scanning for personally identifiable information (PII) like names, you might want to exclude attributes such as `resource_name` and `namespace`.

> - Scan for specific attributes to limit the scope of the data that is scanned. For example, if you are scanning for names, you can specify scanning attributes such as `first_name` and `last_name`.

Reviewer: Nit on the specific attributes: "if you are scanning for names, you can choose specific attributes to scan such as..."

> - Scan for specific attributes to limit the scope of the data that is scanned. For example, if you are scanning for names, you can specify scanning attributes such as `first_name` and `last_name`.

Author: ```suggestion
- Scan for specific attributes to limit the scope of the data that is scanned. For example, if you are scanning for names, you can choose specific attributes such as `first_name` and `last_name`.
```

See step 3 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2] for more information.

## Use out-of-the-box rules

> Use Datadog's out-of-the-box [library rules][3] when possible. The library rules are predefined rules for detecting common patterns such as email addresses, credit card numbers, API keys, authorization tokens, network and device information, and more. [Contact support][4] if there is a rule that you want to use and think other users would also benefit from.

Author: Add instructions for support here: https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TS/pages/328404964/The+Public+Docs+say+Contact+Support#Best-Practices-to-Creating-Custom-Rules

> Use Datadog's out-of-the-box [library rules][3] when possible. The library rules are predefined rules for detecting common patterns such as email addresses, credit card numbers, API keys, authorization tokens, network and device information, and more. [Contact support][4] if there is a rule that you want to use and think other users would also benefit from.

Reviewer: Also would add a mention for recommended keywords in the OOTB library rule section

---
title: Best Practices for Creating Custom Rules
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/sensitive_data_scanner/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Set up Sensitive Data Scanner"
- link: "/sensitive_data_scanner/regular_expression_syntax"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Regular expression syntax for custom rules"
---

## Overview

> Sensitive Data Scanner uses scanning rules to identify, tag, and optionally redact sensitive data in your logs, APM events, and RUM events. Use [out-of-the-box scanning rules][3] or create your own custom rules using [regular expression][1] (regex) patterns. This guide goes over best practices for creating custom rules with regex.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sensitive Data Scanner uses scanning rules to identify, tag, and optionally redact sensitive data in your logs, APM events, and RUM events. Use [out-of-the-box scanning rules][3] or create custom rules using [regular expression][1] (regex) patterns. This guide goes over best practices for creating custom rules with regex.
```

## Use precise regex patterns

> Define regex patterns that are as precise as possible because generic patterns result in more false positives. To refine your regex pattern, add test data in the sample data tester when you are creating a custom rule. See step 2 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2] for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Define regex patterns that are as precise as possible, because generic patterns result in more false positives. To refine your regex pattern, add test data in the sample data tester when creating a custom rule. For more information, see step 2 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2].
```

{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/regex_sample_test.mp4" alt="Testing a regex pattern with a sample that matches and one that does not" video=true >}}

## Refine regex pattern matching

> Add keywords to the keyword dictionary to refine detection accuracy for matching regex patterns. For example, if you are scanning for passwords, you can add keywords like `password`, `token`, `secret`, and `credential`. You can also require that these keywords be within a specified number of characters of a match. By default, keywords must be within 30 characters before a matched value. See step 2 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2] for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
Refine detection accuracy for regex patterns by adding keywords to the keyword dictionary . For example, when scanning for passwords, add keywords like `password`, `token`, `secret`, and `credential`. You can also specify that these keywords need to be within a certain number of characters of a match. By default, keywords must be within 30 characters of a matched value. For more information, see step 2 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2].
```

Author: PM updated the sentence so am going to with the update.

{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/password_keyword.png" alt="A keyword dictionary with password, token, secret, credential" style="width:90%;" >}}

To make matches more precise, you can also do one of the following:

- Scan the entire event but exclude certain attributes from getting scanned. For example, if you are scanning for personally identifiable information (PII) like names, you might want to exclude attributes such as `resource_name` and `namespace`.

> - Scan for specific attributes to limit the scope of the data that is scanned. For example, if you are scanning for names, you can choose specific attributes such as `first_name` and `last_name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Scan for specific attributes to narrow the scope of the data that is scanned. For example, if you are scanning for names, you can target attributes such as `first_name` and `last_name`.
```

Author: PM had requested to say "choose specific attributes", so am going to leave that.

> - Scan for specific attributes to limit the scope of the data that is scanned. For example, if you are scanning for names, you can choose specific attributes such as `first_name` and `last_name`.

Author: ```suggestion
- Scan for specific attributes to narrow the scope of the data that is scanned. For example, if you are scanning for names, you can choose specific attributes such as `first_name` and `last_name`.
```

See step 3 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2] for more information.

## Use out-of-the-box rules

> Use Datadog's out-of-the-box [library rules][3] when possible. The library rules are predefined rules for detecting common patterns such as email addresses, credit card numbers, API keys, authorization tokens, network and device information, and more. Each rule has recommended keywords for the keyword dictionary to refine matching accuracy. You can also [add your own keywords][5]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whenever possible, use Datadog's out-of-the-box [library rules][3]. These rules are predefined rules to detect common patterns such as email addresses, credit card numbers, API keys, authorization tokens, network and device information, and more. Each rule has recommended keywords for the keyword dictionary to refine matching accuracy. You can also [add your own keywords][5]. 
```

{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/password_keyword.png" alt="A keyword dictionary with password, token, secret, credential" style="width:90%;" >}}

To make matches more precise, you can also do one of the following:

- Scan the entire event but exclude certain attributes from getting scanned. For example, if you are scanning for personally identifiable information (PII) like names, you might want to exclude attributes such as `resource_name` and `namespace`.
- Scan for specific attributes to narrow the scope of the data that is scanned. For example, if you are scanning for names, you can choose specific attributes such as `first_name` and `last_name`.

See step 3 in [Add a custom scanning rule][2] for more information.

{{< img src="sensitive_data_scanner/guides/include_exclude_attributes.mp4" alt="Exclude attributes when scanning an entire event or scan for specific attributes" video=true >}}

## Use out-of-the-box rules

> Whenever possible, use Datadog's out-of-the-box [library rules][3]. These rules are predefined rules to detect common patterns such as email addresses, credit card numbers, API keys, authorization tokens, network and device information, and more. Each rule has recommended keywords for the keyword dictionary to refine matching accuracy. You can also [add your own keywords][5]. 

Author: ```suggestion
Whenever possible, use Datadog's out-of-the-box [library rules][3]. These rules are predefined rules that detect common patterns such as email addresses, credit card numbers, API keys, authorization tokens, network and device information, and more. Each rule has recommended keywords for the keyword dictionary to refine matching accuracy. You can also [add your own keywords][5]. 
```
